Cut file.

##Ethics as first philosophy
Following René Descartes and the subjective turn in philosophy, it has become usual to regard epistemology as the “first philosophy.” This is evident in the very title of Descartes’ most famous work: _Meditations on First Philosophy In Which the Existence of God and the Distinction between the Soul and the Body are Demonstrated_. Whatever else Descartes though of himself as doing in his _Meditations_, it was clear that the bulk of his project consisted in applying the epistemology he had previously set out in the _Discourse on Method_. This methodological assumption of Descartes continues to have an influence far beyond the small circle of those who accept his arguments for God or mind-body dualism. It is widely taken for granted that a proper investigation into the nature of a particular discipline such as aesthetics must begin with an investigation into what Immanuel Kant calls “the condition of the very possibility” of the discipline as a science. However, as natural as this starting point may seem, it is a historical aberration. Within the Western tradition the term “first philosophy” ([πρώτη φιλοσοφία][gr]) was originally coined by Aristotle to refer to the discipline now known as metaphysics. Hence it was widely accepted that an investigation into the nature of a discipline as a science could only be conducted once the _objects_ of that discipline had been properly categorized. 

In addition to these two approaches---which broadly speaking can be to characterize ancient and modern first philosophy in the West---there is another tradition in the East of taking practical concerns as having primary significance. For classical Indian philosophers (_āstika_ and _nāstika_ alike), the first questions to be resolved were soteriological, and out of these answers flowed quite sophisticated metaphysical, logical, and epistemic systems. For the ancient Chinese and the cultures they influenced, the first questions to be resolved were ethical and political. For example, when Confucius and Xunzi spoke about _zhengming_ [正名][ch] (using language properly), they did so not from the metaphysical standpoint of Socrates, who worries that his definitions conform to the eternal Forms, nor from the epistemological standpoint of David Hume, who traces ideas back to their original impressions, but from the standpoint of the socio-political effects certain patterns of usage will have within society.

- - - -

In a modernist project, we might begin by relating aesthetics to knowledge and the question of how we as subjects obtain knowledge of it. In a more classical vein, we might begin by relating aesthetics to its objects by contrasting and connecting the internal objects of experience and the external objects of the world. Or perhaps we might begin by attempting to relate aesthetics to a larger soteriological or politico-ethical project, as Tolstoy does in "What Is Art?" Of course, whichever approach we choose to employ to describe aesthetics will by necessity be “impure” and contain elements of the other approaches. However, 

- - - -

Such an approach retains the modern subjective turn’s focus on the human being as the starting point of inquiry.

- - - -

 In his _Meditations_, Descartes emphasizes the importance of individual, theoretical contemplation as over communal, practical action. Traditional philosophy had depicted praxis as the ladder to theoria,[^] but in the _Discourse on Method_, Descartes specifically renounces ethical inquiry and action. For Descartes, theory is the starting point, and practice follows.[^] However, it is made clear in the _Discourse_ that the greatest motivator of this paradigm shift is Descartes’ desire to forestall a repeat of the Galileo trials, rather than any specifically philosophical concern.[^] Nevertheless, Descartes approach in the _Discourse_ and _Meditations_ managed to accelerate the pre-existing trend toward a separation of theory and practice in Western philosophy. 

[^]: Literally so in Boethius' _Consolation of Philosophy_, in which the symbolic woman Philosophy wears a dress embroidered with a ladder from pi (praxis) to theta (theoria). Similarly, Pierre Hadot repeatedly emphasizes in _Philosophy as a Way of Life_ that the ancients considered theoretical insight to be an accomplishment over and above the primary achievement of practical action. <!-- §§ Boethius, Hadot-->
[^]: In spite of this somewhat unflattering portrait of Cartesian philosophy, it should also be pointed out that when Descartes titled his book _Meditations on First Philosophy_, he meant them to be quite literally meditations performed as a mental discipline. Nevertheless, even from this perspective, the contrast is instructive. For the ancient skeptics, the suspension of judgment was a life long endeavor. For Descartes, suspension of judgment was to be achieved in a single day of reflection.
[^]: Descartes introductory comment in *Discourse on Method* VI, "I finished the treatise containing all these matters; and I was beginning to revise it […] when I learned that persons to whom I greatly defer […] had condemned a certain doctrine in physics [viz. Galileo's heliocenterism…]; and this led me to fear lest among my own doctrines likewise some one might be found in which I had departed from the truth […]" makes clear the source of the first of Descartes' personal maxims listed in part III, "to obey the laws and customs of my country, adhering firmly to the faith in which, by the grace of God, I had been educated from my childhood and regulating my conduct in every other matter according to the most moderate opinions, and the farthest removed from extremes, which should happen to be adopted in practice with general consent of the most judicious of those among whom I might be living." He plainly saw that it was dangerous to be overtly heterodox and so moderated his ethical, practical considerations out of a prudential fear of negative consequences from challenging the authorities of his time.

In East Asia, such a trend was negligible in the pre-modern era.

- - - -

Suppose, however, that a critic insists that logic, not ethics, is philosophically prior. Surprisingly, this critic will find an implicit opponent in Aristotle, whose defense of the law of non-contradiction ultimately grounds out in the concerns of the community:

> There are some who, as we said, both themselves assert that it is possible for the same thing to be and not to be, and say that people can judge this to be the case. And among others many writers about nature use this language. But we have now posited that it is impossible for anything at the same time to be and not to be, and by this means have shown that this is the most indisputable of all principles.---Some indeed demand that even this shall be demonstrated, but this they do through want of education, for not to know of what things one should demand demonstration, and of what one should not, argues want of education. For it is impossible that there should be demonstration of absolutely everything (there would be an infinite regress, so that there would still be no demonstration); but if there are things of which one should not demand demonstration, these persons could not say what principle they maintain to be more self-evident than the present one.
>
> We can, however, demonstrate negatively even that this view is impossible, if our opponent will only say something; and if he says nothing, it is absurd to seek to give an account of our views to one who cannot give an account of anything, in so far as he cannot do so. For such a man, as such, is from the start no better than a vegetable.[^]

[^]: Aristotle, _Metaphysics_, tr. W. D. Ross. Book Γ, part 4. 

In other words, for Aristotle the ultimate grounds of logic as an metaphysical enterprise are the grounds of discourse among fellow human beings. [Λόγος][gr] is an account, and accounts are given among and between human beings. To discover the rules of logic must be an anthropological project. With the person who will not abide by the law of non-contradiction we cannot have a productive conversation, and so for that reason we may say that in a certain sense the communal understanding that allows for discourse must come even before logic in philosophical priority.

If this is the case for logic, it is also the case for epistemology as well. While the difficulties with defining knowledge as a “justified, true belief” are well-known at this point, the core of any knowledge claim is inevitably that one purports to have a _trustworthy_ belief or ability. The standards for trustworthiness maybe personal so long as we are relying on this knowledge for our own purposes alone, however, so soon as we would ask others to trust this purported knowledge as well (which is of course the meaning of science as a human enterprise), we have entered into the realm of ethics.

- - - -

Without beginning from a basis in practice, one would lack the data necessary to classify the objects of aesthetic inquiry, since it through practice that we come to discriminate among those objects, hence a metaphysical approach to first philosophy must nevertheless be backstopped through practice. Similarly, without beginning from a basis in practice, it would be impossible to determine how aesthetic knowledge is created, since it through practice that we recognize together what counts as having justified our true beliefs. Thus, an epistemological approach to first philosophy will also ground out in a certain sense in an account of what justifies us to others when we make knowledge claims. Accounts of practice and justification are, of course, questions that fall under the domain of ethics. It follows that our philosophical anthropology must begin by accounting for active, practical aspect of humankind (“What ought I to do?”) before it can adequately address Kant’s other two questions.

- - - -

For example, Seizō [Sekine][sc] objects in _A Comparative Study of the Origins of Ethical Thought_ that, “even Watsuji cannot help put proffer a transcendental principle” because “trust is based on laws of human existence, while betraying trust is contrary to these laws, which is exactly why it was prohibited” (138). This objection has merit, but to call Watsuji’s central ethical principle “transcendental” is to miss the point somewhat. As Hall and Ames define it in _Thinking Through Confucius_,

> Strict transcendence may be understood as follows: a principle, _A_, is transcendent with respect to that, _B_, which it serves as principle if the meaning or import of _B_ cannot be fully accounted for without recourse to _A_, but the reverse is not true. (_Thinking Through Confucius_, 13)

Under this definition, Watsuji’s ultimate ethical principles are not as Sekine suggests “transcendent,” because such principles are understood by and through human action as well as being the source of human action. Watsuji explains:

- - - -

As Sekine rightly notes, Watusji’s ethics turns on what will be explained to be a return to authenticity in double negation. However, properly understood one must also see that for Watsuji, authenticity is not an independent _A_ explaining the _B_ of normativity without being explained by it. 